my dear brothers and sisters
so I'm going to begin with a funny story
and it's a contrast of two things
because it's not going to make sense to
you if I don't share this contrast with
you so in my fourth year at Medina
University we had a class called
like the methodology of teaching and I
remember in one of the weeks the teacher
comes in and he's super excited and he's
like I have some amazing news to share
with you guys you know there's a a big
advancement in technology that is
completely going to change the game
altogether and that's like the vibe that
altogether and that's like the vibe tha
he's bringing up what does he end up
pulling out in the middle of the class a
projector screen that you can write on
like we were using that in elementary
school and this is like new technology
for him so that's like you know how
backwards things were up until you know
even the early 2000s in Saudi Arabia now
why do I begin with that story so that
why do I begin with that story so tha
you can understand what happened in my
first year of Medina in my first year of
Medina we had a class called which is
the history of legislation in it we
discussed you know how the Quran was
revealed how it was preserved and
written down and documented same thing
with the Sunnah and then it eventually
led to the development of the four
maidahib and my teacher for this class
his name was
his father actually used to be Imam of
Masjid like 40 50 years ago and this man
was completely completely completely
different from any of the other teachers
in what sense
on one side you had a teacher bragging
about wow we have a projector that we
can teach from now and this man was
bringing up typed up notes for all the
students and that was very unique so not
students and that was very unique so no
only did he make things easy for the
students by bringing up typed up notes
and I can see some of you some of the
people are saying what's the big deal of
notes when you have to tell you like
handwrite notes in Arabic especially as
a non-arab it's a mission and a half
like literally my forearm muscles grew
in Medina just from like all the writing
I had to keep up with so this teacher
was phenomenal and he had a wealth of
knowledge and this is it was very very
different like he wasn't serious but he
was always about business it was always
about studying always about learning and
always about investing in people and I
always thought to myself subhanallah you
know when I go back one of the subjects
I would like to teach is this the
development of Islam like how is the
Quran revealed and preserved how is this
preserved and then how were the Messiah
developed
now in terms of the Quran and the Sunnah
believe it or not actually did that in
2007 while I was still a student in
Medina I came back in 2007 and the very
first organization that invited me was
um the Quran and sinner Society in
Toronto and the videos are still up
you'll see that I have really long care
and it's like I'm always wearing a white
though white hat and like uh almost a
very different person so I did that
very different person so I did tha
portion of it then but I never got uh
the opportunity to teach the history of
the mazahib and this is like you can say
literally you know where what in 2017
now 10 years later Allah has given me
the opportunity to do that and that's
something that I'm very very grateful
for so I want to break down for you how
these classes are going to work so we
have two simultaneous classes going on
at the same time Friday nights is going
to be the biography of the imams and
Thursday nights is going to be the
jurisprudence principles or the usual of
the imams that what were the principles
that the imams used in order to create
their schools of thought so that is
going to be starting next Thursday so
Thursday coming up and that's going to
be at 8th and 8th inshallah and for both
of these classes we're going to be using
two texts so the first text the ones
that we're using for Friday night is
called in the company of in the company
of the imams
you can find this book online on his
website so you can follow along if you
if you choose to do so and most of the
information that you'll find is from
this book and I'm using other sources as
well to add into the biographies so this
is what we'll be using for Friday nights
for Thursday nights we're using a book
called the four imams by Mohammed Abu
Zahara Muhammad and that's actually a
very very thick book and it has a
section on the biography of the imams
but it focuses a lot on their
jurisprudence principles which is what
jurisprudence principles which is wha
we will be focusing on now you may be
wondering what is the point of studying
the jurisprudence principles now over
the past couple of years something that
the past couple of years something tha
I've noticed is that a reoccurring theme
in those people that have a crisis of
faith meaning they end up you know
because coming very very weak in their
faith or they end up leaving their faith
altogether is that their understanding
of Islam was almost non-existent that
of Islam was almost non-existent tha
they didn't understand why they had to
pray they didn't understand why they had
to fast or why they had to read the
Quran or why they this certain things
were Halal by certain things were Haram
and when you study the science of
rasulull it helps you appreciate this
religion and helps you understand that
religion and helps you understand tha
this religion is not just about Allah
saying do this and don't do that but
saying do this and don't do that bu
it's about understanding the wisdom
behind it you know Imam Allah one of the
great imams of Islam he said there's
nothing that Allah has made Halal except
nothing that Allah has made Halal excep
that there's benefit in it and there's
nothing that Allah has made Haram except
nothing that Allah has made Haram excep
that there's harm in it so the
obligation on us now as Muslims is that
obligation on us now as Muslims is tha
Allah constantly tells us you know
reflect remember understand we need to
understand what is the good that Allah
wants us to achieve from this
commandment and what is the harm that
commandment and what is the harm tha
Allah wants us to abstain from in the
prohibition so this is how you increase
your faith and I'm hoping that through
the series inshallah you know as far as
I know I haven't seen anything like it
I know I haven't seen anything like i
in terms of like an uh an audio or video
format there are a couple of books out
format there are a couple of books ou
there but in terms of an audio and video
form I haven't seen anything like it I'm
hoping that it will help Muslims
appreciate their faith more and that's
what we need people that understand
their faith and understand what they're
doing so that they can get closer to
Allah so that's what the Thursday night
Allah so that's what the Thursday nigh
classes are about the Friday night
classes are about the Friday nigh
classes is all about inspiration you
know so now getting on to the format of
the classes so the format of the classes
each class is going to be four weeks
followed by an introduction so tonight
followed by an introduction so tonigh
is the introduction night which is going
to summarize the biographies of the
imams like
Islam has had so many scholars what was
it that made these four Scholars stick
out above everyone else else that's what
out above everyone else else that's wha
we're going to be studying tonight so
it's an introduction to their
biographies where we take we take
glimpses of each of them and then every
Friday following forward we'll be going
in chronological order so
first followed by Imam Malik followed by
Imam followed by Imam Ahmed IBN now like
I said it's about to be it's meant to be
inspirational because you know
supposedly we're living in very dark
times really inspiration we need good
role models and these are like from the
best of the role models so let us begin
the first thing we're going to be taking
is the Hadith of the Prophet salallahu
alaihi wasallam narrated by uh Imam
al-bayaki where the prophet salallahu
alaihi wasallam he says
that Allah has chosen a group of
trustworthy people whom in every
generation will carry this knowledge and
that something we have to have faith in
and certainty in and also a sense of
optimism in Allah he tells us in the
Quran that he is the one that has
revealed the Quran and he is the one
that will protect it now encompassed in
this is the Deen of Allah now the way
Allah preserves and protects this Deen
is through the scholars is through the
scholars and that is why in every
generation Allah will continue to send
reputable Scholars that will have the
admiration of the people but there will
be principled people that will stick to
the truth and will be just purely
focused on spreading the dean of Allah
now on this Hadith is narrated a lot of
the times the very first names that are
mentioned that who was the messenger of
Allah referring to when he mentioned
this Hadith it was referring to the
likes of the four imams and it is
applicable to the likes of the four
imams so the first thing we want to look
at is what is the time frame of their
life
was born in the year 80 after Hijra and
Imam Ahmed who was the youngest of them
died in 241 after Hijra so this is the
time frame that you're looking at you
know a period of about 161 years that's
what we're looking at from A.T Hijra to
241 Hijra this was also known as one of
the golden eras of Islam known as the
time of the salaf the prophet salallahu
alaihi wasallam he mentions in a
beautiful Hadith that
[Music]
the best of generations is my generation
then the generation that follows them
and the generation that follows them so
they fall into that category of being
from the best of generations and that is
the second virtue that this has number
three is that when you look at the
formalization that when these Sciences
became known as individual Sciences it
became known as individual Sciences i
happened in this era in particular so
originally we only have two sources in a
slab you have a Quran and you have the
Sunnah of the Prophet salallahu alaihi
wasallam but where did come from where
did come from where did The Sciences of
Hadith come from where did devsir come
from all of these Sciences developed
during that time and that is what was
known as The Golden Era of Islam because
Islamic knowledge is being studied and
it is being spread
when you look at the history of Baghdad
right when you look at you know when the
Tardis invaded Baghdad not only were
there was it sad that a lot of deaths
took place but one of the most like I
guess deplorable things that happened
during that time was that they destroyed
the libraries and they said that they
threw the books into the into the sea
and there was so much ink that they had
turned the sea black right so this is a
part of our history there's a point in
history where non-muslims used to come
to Muslim lands to get educated right
to Muslim lands to get educated righ
you want to learn medicine you came to
Muslim lands you wanted to learn
engineer you want to learn math you came
to Muslim lands these all came and
stemmed off from the Golden Era of Islam
when there was a huge emphasis on
knowledge and it was being spread
everywhere so on every corner you were
finding a madrasa on every corner you're
finding a school and the most notable
profession was to become a teacher and
that is something that you know when I
when I look at this concept if you look
at how dysfunctional educational
philosophy has become in this day and
age a lot of it revolves around
qualified people don't want to become
teachers anymore right those people that
teachers anymore right those people tha
have the skills to become teachers and
are good at becoming teachers just due
to the way that teachers are being
treated just to you due to how low their
salaries are they don't want to become
teachers you know it's sort of like you
know why aren't people interested in
becoming imams why don't people want
becoming imams why don't people wan
like if you were to ask people how many
of you want to become imams when you
grow up how many of you had that Vision
I'm pretty close I'm pretty sure it'd be
like less than a handful right I'm not
like less than a handful right I'm no
going to ask but you can ask yourself
did you grow up thinking I want to
become a female when I grow up no you
didn't have that why because it wasn't
didn't have that why because it wasn'
it wasn't considered a position of
repute it didn't come with a good salary
now when your educational leaders are
treated like that what do you think is
going to happen to the education system
is going to fall it's going to flop and
it's going to collapse and that is why
education systems particularly in North
America are collapsing that's what's
happening all together so the golden
figure of Islam thrived because of
knowledge and societies collapse because
they no longer respect knowledge and
that's what we need to understand so
these are some of the times that they
were living in now understanding primary
issues versus secondary issues by
primary issues we call these the usul
like the fundamentals of our faith and
then the secondary issues these are
called photo that these are like
subsidiary issues that these are issues
that you know are not trivial but not as
important as you saw themselves when it
important as you saw themselves when i
came to matters of Akida the imams were
pretty much in consensus and all the
scholars were pretty much consensus in
these first three years of Islam however
when it came to secondary issues
there was a huge difference of opinion
there is a huge difference of opinion
now what is the value of difference of
opinion is difference of opinion a mercy
from Allah or is there a punishment from
Allah and this is why when you look in
the Quran Allah will use two different
the Quran Allah will use two differen
terms he uses and he uses
of itself is not harmful it's not
of itself is not harmful it's no
harmful with and of itself you are
allowed to differ with one another and
that's not a problem
which is animosity and hatred that is a
result of differing then that is
something that is Haram in our faith
that is something that is Haram in our
faith so these great
faith so these grea
amongst themselves but he still had
Brotherly Love they still had respect
Brotherly Love they still had respec
for one another and this is what is
important to understand that you know a
lot of people think that the formation
of these madahib that they're in
competition with one another that this
eventually ended up happening later on
when you see you know what ended up
happening particularly in Makkah that
happening particularly in Makkah tha
when it came time for Salah there were
four Salas that would happen so the
Maliki mother would have this
would have their Salah and each one of
them is praying to a different side of
the club so that's the stream that
the club so that's the stream tha
people go through and that's what's
important to understand that any form of
extremism in our faith is looked down
upon but in terms of the formation of
these madahib they are meant to be a
curriculum so just like you have
curriculums in school you have these
syllabus this is for people that want to
become Scholars of Islam how do I become
a scholar in Islam you know they'll tell
you read the Quran read Hadith okay I've
read the Quran I read the Hadith will
that make me a scholar of Islam no it
that make me a scholar of Islam no i
won't because you're going to need
principles to understand them so those
principles to understand them are what
principles to understand them are wha
these schools of thoughts are actually
about and that is why it's so important
about and that is why it's so importan
to have a balanced view pertaining to
these that these mad were not in
competition with one another in the
sense that just because I'm anafee and
Yoshi that we hate one another that
Yoshi that we hate one another tha
wasn't to the point
let us try our best to interpret them
and develop our folk right we need the
curriculum from A to Z and that is what
curriculum from A to Z and that is wha
these madahib were actually about this
is what the madahib were actually about
is what the madahib were actually abou
now did these imams promote that only
Verma should be followed and you'll
notice from all of the imams that that
notice from all of the imams that tha
was not the case in fact from one of the
signs of sincerity is that people will
give preference to other people's
knowledge over themselves in one
particular incident that is reported
about Imam Malik at that time was
and he was very impressed by it he told
Imam Malik that we're going to make this
the official manual for the
caliphate that the whole caliphate is
going to follow this meaning that
going to follow this meaning tha
regardless of what people followed in
other parts of the land they now
officially have to become Maliki
he actually refused the Khalifa saying
that you are not allowed to do this why
because the Khalifa went on to be
explained to that people already have
their understandings of silk people have
already learned from their teachers
understand that this is still very early
on in Islam the sahaba are still alive
at that time right
at that time righ
passed away at 93.
passes away 110 so the sahaba is still
alive meaning that this development of
Frick has already taken place in
communities where the companions you
want to continue to teach so now when
you bring an official manual saying that
you bring an official manual saying tha
this is what the caliper has to follow
is going to cause more confusion and it
is going to cause more confusion and i
will cause benefit because Islam is
still so young and early on at that time
unless
did not impose his opinion upon other
people
number two
understanding difference of opinion is
that difference of opinion is a mercy
and not a punishment in what's
perspective in what sense that
perspective in what sense tha
difference of opinion is a mercy that
difference of opinion is a mercy tha
had all of the imams held one single
opinion
there will be no leeway out of it there
will be no leeway out of it
will be no leeway out of i
right to serve as individuals in a
situation where he needs something from
that he's a difficulty he needs to
be accommodated to if all of the imams
have one opinion on that issue then it
have one opinion on that issue then i
would have created difficulty I'll show
you a a very realistic uh you know
example just before the halaka someone
had come up and asked that you know uh
there's an engineering when you go out
there's an engineering when you go ou
on the fields you have to wear a mask
and in order to wear that mask you
actually have to shave off your beard or
trim it down very very closely now if
you take the humble opinion where like
the modern day humble opinion is that
the modern day humble opinion is tha
you have to let your beard grow out
you have to let your beard grow ou
together in fact you're not allowed
touching your beard right you're not
touching your beard right you're no
allowed touching it whatsoever that
allowed touching it whatsoever tha
means that none of the humbles could
ever become you know Engineers that are
on the ground because you need to turn
down your blood at that time so imagine
if all of the imams have this one
opinion that means we would have no
muslim engineers and like half of the
room would be like out of a job right
room would be like out of a job righ
now that's the reality of it but then
you have
it wasn't that big of an issue right so
this is how we understand that the
differences in fact allowed to
accommodate for different situations
they allow the combination of different
they allow the combination of differen
situations a third benefit from
difference of opinion is that it shows
us what are the issues that there's
legitimate difference of opinion on
versus issues that there's
what does that mean so if someone comes
up to you and says there's a sixth Salah
that is mandatory upon you all of you
clearly know that that's not possible
the
so that is an illegitimate difference of
opinion but if you were to say where do
I place my hands in Salah right then you
will get multiple opinions on that
will get multiple opinions on tha
because that is a difference of opinion
that existed amongst the imams so the
difference of opinions amongst the imams
they actually showed the scope
that you're allowed it to differ on like
to what degree are you allowed to differ
these are all the opinions that existed
so these are all the thing is that we
can differ amongst ourselves on and we
can't introduce a new opinion after that
can't introduce a new opinion after tha
we can't introduce a new opinion after
that there is a beautiful quote by um
he said I do not wish that the prophet's
companions had never disagreed if that
companions had never disagreed if tha
had been the case there would be no
leeway in religion there would be no
leeway in religion
and that is why this is the last point
and that is why this is the last poin
in this section over here
when we look at dealing with difference
of opinions it's so important to be
tolerant towards difference of opinions
that you may follow one particular
opinion but that doesn't mean that you
disrespect someone else for another
opinion that they hold for another
opinion that they hold and you can see
this in a wide variety of cases whether
it is the way people pray whether it is
you know the whole issue of halal meat
you know the whole issue of halal mea
or whatnot these are all matters of
difference of opinion and these matters
of difference of opinion should not lead
us towards animosity or hatred towards
our brothers and sisters this is within
the realm of and you're allowed to
differ and it should not take away from
that you know I've seen certain
communities hey you can't pray behind
that Imam because he eats like the meat
that Imam because he eats like the mea
from like Superstore or something like
that this is ridiculous this is absurd
that's like a valid position that he's
following and in the greatest scheme of
things it's really not that big of a
deal right like when you talk about the
contradiction of when it comes to like
halal meat you'll see that people will
like deal with whatever they'll drink
alcohol but it's like hey can I have
like a Halal Chicken on the side or
something right it's absurd it's
absolutely absurd so in terms of
priorities you know this is like from
the tactics of shaytan so understand
that difference of opinion should be
tolerated as long as that difference of
opinion is valid how do you learn if a
difference opinion is valid or not well
that's what the Thursday night classes
are for the Thursday night classes will
help us understand what is a valid
difference of opinion versus what is not
difference of opinion versus what is no
a valid difference of opinion Now we
move into section number two after we've
understood their times
is Imam imams became great because he
understood how to respond to the
challenges of their time so at that time
multi-ethnicities and multinationals
were entering into the fold of Islam and
they accommodated for all of them they
accommodated for all of them and they
stood up to the challenges of their time
and this is one of the things that needs
to be brought back is that when you look
at Islamic scholarship right now it is
extremely stagnant that in terms of you
know breaking research that is taking
place in terms of accommodating towards
the the pressing matters of our times it
the the pressing matters of our times i
doesn't take place anymore right one of
the recent trends that I've been getting
asked a lot about
asked a lot abou
as well as they're running on Drop
Shipping like when the last three weeks
literally at least six people have
emailed me asking me what is the ruling
on Drop Shipping when you look online
finding fatawa finding research on Drop
Shipping
almost non-existent almost non-existent
almost non-existent almost non-existen
right and this is one of the pressing
things so those of you that you know are
selling on Amazon this is what Drop
Shipping is pretty much all about when
you look at organ donation right in 1988
there was like one research paper that
there was like one research paper tha
was written by the muja mafia in Jeddah
and since then nothing has come out like
1988 to now there's been no developments
that Muslim Scholars can comment on now
my understanding of this issue is that
my understanding of this issue is tha
it stems from two places it's not that
it stems from two places it's not tha
knowledge has been lost in fact we live
in a time where knowledge is the most
in a time where knowledge is the mos
accessible for those of you that have
you know backgrounds in the Arabic
language there's actually a program
called uh
is like you know a signs from the signs
of Allah
literally you will type in a word and it
literally you will type in a word and i
will go through pretty much every single
Islamic book that has been written and
tell you what it says about that word so
and it's just phenomenal so in terms of
access to knowledge we don't have to
read all these books anymore you're
looking for something
and it automatically shows up so if all
this knowledge is accessible where is
the problem
the problem stems from two areas number
one is the confidence of the scholars
themselves that Scholars within
themselves no longer have the confidence
in their knowledge to keep up with the
types they feel very confident reading
these books translating these books
telling you what's inside of these books
but as soon as you challenge them to
come up with the problems of their times
you'll find that they don't have the
confidence to do so and a lot of that
confidence to do so and a lot of tha
has to do with the template that they're
brought up with that a lot of the
Educational Systems they teach you to
regurgitate they teach you to reiterate
they don't teach you to critically think
and that is something we need to bring
back into Islamic scholarship that the
Quran are not something that are you
know just for that time it is meant to
be for till the day of judgment so
meaning that our understanding of the
Quran and the Sunnah needs to cater to
the problems that people face in this
day and age and that requires confidence
that teachers need to Mentor their
students and teach them hey it's okay to
make a mistake if you get something
wrong this is how you fix it this is how
you think this is what you're meant to
understand this is the spirit of the law
that this Hadith or this Ayah is trying
to convey that is the first issue and
number two is more of a spiritual issue
now the spiritual issue has been
reoccurring throughout history that
reoccurring throughout history tha
spiritual issue is I don't want to lead
people astray and I don't want to have
accountability in front of Allah
if I do something wrong
now how did the messenger of Allah
accommodate for that problem and this is
from the beauty of our faith that the
Bible is addressing issues that are
coming much much later on
the promise of Allah tells us that when
makes it hard if he is correct he gets
truer words if he is incorrect what does
he get he still gets one reward for it
he get he still gets one reward for i
meaning that the score is required to
make it and try to help the people if
you get it wrong you got it wrong Allah
is still giving you one reward for
trying and you learn from your mistake
but in to come to the point where you no
longer make an effort out of fear of
being wrong then this is something that
being wrong then this is something tha
is not acceptable this is something that
is not acceptable this is something tha
is not acceptable now how does this tie
into the decline of the ummah
the decline of the ummah comes when
Muslim Scholars no longer take the lead
in guiding the people right there's two
types of authority in Islam there's
political Authority and there's
religious Authority these are the two
main forms of authority
now each of them has their own
responsibilities and their own duties
the religious Authority is responsible
for catering to the needs of the people
spiritually and you know Jewish students
wise those are the two main
responsibilities but now if you have a
religious leadership that lacks
confidence in and of itself and lacks
you know
that Allah is going to deal with them
justly that is when you know Nations
collapse and that is what we're seeing
right now is the stagnancy of the ummah
because religious leadership is no
longer doing their job now the good
thing is I think scholarship is starting
to recognize this that hey if we don't
to recognize this that hey if we don'
start to cater towards the needs of the
community we're going to be held
accountable on the day of judgment so as
people are leaving Islam as you know
more and more bad things are happening
religious Scholars are waking up and I'm
going to go on to a small tangent
going to go on to a small tangen
um I was at Islamic awareness today uh
in Edmonton yesterday
and the scope of the discussion was on
dealing with islamophobia I'm one of the
tactics that has come up in dealing with
islamophobia is the normalization of
Islam within secular liberal parameters
now what does that mean so what that
now what does that mean so what tha
looks like is you're now actually going
to start seeing Muslims on TV in you
know TV shows they're no longer
portrayed as the terrorist right for the
last 20 years anytime you saw someone
named Ahmad guaranteed he was the bad
guy in the movie or in the TV show he's
the guy that's going to blow up the
plane blow up the building or kill
someone that is how it was
or do something bad yes but now you're
noticing the exact opposite of that so
you know there's a actually a
documentary that's coming out called a
normalization of Muslims where there's a
a scene from a movie called bad moms if
you don't know what it is don't look it
you don't know what it is don't look i
up but the point is there's two hijabi
sisters in it and they're just partying
like the there's a scene where they're
just going crazy partying there's
another TV show on ABC called Quantico
where there's a sister that's wearing
hijab that's a part of the FBI and she
ends up committing Zina right and then
you have another one
um this is actually a separate
documentary called what it's like to be
you know who are the Muslims of America
and then you have a man that says you
know I'm Muslim and I have two dogs and
I drink then you have a lady that comes
up that you know has like tattoos and is
like pierced everywhere she's like I'm
Muslim as well and this is my wife and
there's like another woman next to her
and when you look at these things you
know it's like almost mind-boggling then
either you have to be someone that is a
terrorist or you have to be a Muslim
that has secular liberal values in order
for you to be a practicing conservative
Muslim is no longer going to be possible
that is a scary reality that you need to
understand then when you look at the
threat to conservative Orthodox Islam it
threat to conservative Orthodox Islam i
is an under huge threat because either
you're the terrorist or you're the
secular liberal or Muslim
you can't be or both I don't know about
you can't be or both I don't know abou
that but you can't be a practicing
conservative Orthodox Muslim if you are
you're the bad guy that is what is
happening now why am I tying this up
one of the fundamental reasons this is
happening is people have become
disenfranchised with Islam people no
longer find Islam relevant
longer find Islam relevan
one of the most beautiful things I read
within the last six months is the
greatest threat to Islam is not
greatest threat to Islam is no
persecution it is apathy that is a
result of cultural irrelevance
apathy is when people no longer care
right they no longer find Islam relevant
right they no longer find Islam relevan
so they end up leaving it this owner
will not be destroyed by the physical
attacks that take place on this ummah
the person promised us that but what
the person promised us that but wha
will end up destroying this ummah is
when Scholars do not do their job in
making Islam relevant
making Islam relevan
now when you look at the four imams they
excelled at that any challenges that
excelled at that any challenges tha
came their way they found a way to
accommodate any problems that occurred
they found a way to deal with it head on
so now when we're dealing with atheism
when we're dealing with financial
business matters when you're dealing
with you know Intercultural issues when
you're looking at issues of identity
religious scholarship needs to be
brought back now you'll notice this
whole time I'm just going on a rant on
blaming religious scholarship but in
essence who are the people to blame
it is us why
because we no longer instill in our
children in our young people The Pride
that they should have in becoming a
Muslim scholar this goes back to our
fact that when you ask someone hey do
you want to be an Iman when you grow up
he's like heck no right I will become
anything else except in the Imam why
because they see the way the imams are
treated they see the way the imams are
you know are underpaid and by the way
alhamdulillah you know Calgary is like
the exception to the rule this
organization but it was the exception to
the rule like you go to other places
I'll tell you a story about the the Imam
of my Masjid growing up the amount of my
Masjid growing up they wouldn't give him
a salary
what they would give him is every jummah
whatever they collected they would give
him 10 of that and then they would tell
him that if you still need more money
apply for welfare
now his son wants to go to university
where is he supposed to get the money
for that from right and he's like a
whole bunch of issues so we need to
instill we love ourselves number one the
importance of religious education
Inspire young people to become religious
Scholars number two is that when we
choose who we accept in our Islamic
schools when you look at our Islamic
schools people that couldn't get into
other schools or they get kicked out of
other schools the Islamic school
welcomes them we can't keep doing that
welcomes them we can't keep doing tha
anymore
the Islamic schools have to be pristine
in the sense that the best of the best
in the sense that the best of the bes
should come to our schools and that's
who we want to raise in our schools
number three is that start treating
religious Authority properly religious
Authority is not meant to be perfect
Authority is not meant to be perfec
none of these imams were perfect
none of these imams were perfec
so they have to be treated with respect
so they have to be treated with respec
treated with honor so that regardless of
where you end up in the world be active
in the message that you end up in and
make sure that your Imam make sure your
resident scholar make sure that the
people that are part of your
congregation are respected and treated
humanly so that when kids see them as an
example they're okay one day when I grow
up I want to be like that individual so
they responded to change
number three the persecution that these
imams went through the persecution that
imams went through the persecution tha
these imams went through
the persecution that these imams went
the persecution that these imams wen
through was of two different types
number one was in the dealing with the
people number two was with religious
Authority
in terms of religious Authority we'll
get to the specific specifics of them in
their lives but we mentioned Imam he's
imprisoned towards the end of his life
had his arms broken because of a fatwa
he gave on marriage right
he gave on marriage righ
he is put in prison because he disagreed
with the Khalifa and spreading the the
right so all these issues are going on
these Scholars are persecuted now when
people come out of persecution and they
are still able to lead people that
are still able to lead people tha
increases the order and respect that
increases the order and respect tha
people have for them and that is what
people have for them and that is wha
you see that even though all these imams
were persecuted by their leaders they
didn't come out and say hey we need to
rebel against this leader overthrow him
he's a terrible leader but they
understood that this Muslim leader as
bad as he was not having a suitable
replacement and creating chaos was a
much worse thing that could happen so
they stayed quiet they stayed patient
they stayed quiet they stayed patien
but they showed the people the correct
but they showed the people the correc
thing to do without rebelling they
showed the people the correct thing to
do without your belly so that's in terms
of political Authority in terms of human
interaction
one of the things that is bound to
happen when you become a person of
repute is that people will speak bad of
you people will always speak bad about
you people will always speak bad abou
you this is the reality of it as soon as
you come into the public eye people will
speak bad about you
Allah
of someone else called al-quribi
so one day
sees them leaving from
now the students thought Imam Ahmed is
going to be ticked off that you know how
could you betray me this guy talks bad
about me all the time you know what type
of students are you where is your
loyalty
he asked them what did you learn benefit
he asked them what did you learn benefi
me from it benefit me from it
me from it benefit me from i
and they were perplexed they're like
yeah don't you know what this man says
about you like even in the holiday we
just attended he was speaking bad about
just attended he was speaking bad abou
you
he responded by saying that he is a man
of integrity that has a personal problem
with me and it should not prevent you
from learning from him they should not
from learning from him they should no
prevent you from learning from him and
this is another reoccurring scene that
this is another reoccurring scene tha
you find in their lives that is a huge
lesson for us that never becomes so
petty that you got drawn into the drama
of people
people have loads of drama they want to
drag you into their drama stay far away
from it as possible someone wants to
drag you in the dirt excuse yourself
people are speaking bad about someone
excuse yourself don't get involved in it
excuse yourself don't get involved in i
and the imams of the past understood
that as soon as you become a person of
repute people will speak bad against you
you just ignore it and any form of her
that you can continue to provide you
should do so any form of Claire that you
can provide should continue to do so
there's actually uh something nice I
wanted to share with you
um
actually it's a statement
actually it's a statemen
was once asked what is better for Iman
to be established in reputation and
Authority or to be persecuted so either
to have good reputation and Authority or
to be persecuted which one is better for
the man so the anger that they're coming
from is that if you're persecuted that
from is that if you're persecuted tha
you know uh your sins are forgiven your
ranks are raised
he said it is not possible to have the
former until you've experienced the
letter meaning you cannot become a
person of repute and Authority until
you've gone through some form of
persecution that this person makes
persecution makes you stronger embrace
it understand it and that is where the
authority and refuge will come from that
authority and refuge will come from tha
is where the authority and repute will
come from
the relationship between the imams what
the relationship between the imams wha
is the relationship between the imams
how were they tied together
the four enabs actually have a very
interesting relationship three of them
have a very direct relationship
was the teacher Imam
Allah was the teacher of Imam so there's
like that direct lineage over there
the connection is not to direct it is
indirect it's just either through
teachers or through students
[Music]
he is this teacher of Imam Malik and
Imam
they're also connected through their
students so the two main students of
Imam Allah
and Abu Yusuf we'll talk about these
individuals in detail these two were
teachers of Imam Malik as well as
students and they were teachers
as well as students now you'll notice
that there's going to be an overlap in
this teacher-student relationship which
is at a point that I want to emphasize
over here that we live in a day and age
where scholarship
has become you know synonymous with
arrogance and pride now if a person is a
scholar he starts to think that you know
what there's no one else that I can
learn from there's no one else that I
can study with I know everything out
can study with I know everything ou
there and if I need to research
something I can just go and look it up
in the books myself and I find that very
problematic this is not the way
religious leadership should be in fact
religious leadership should be in fac
these imams show us the exact opposite
used to teach Imam Ahmed
and that was such a beautiful
relationship in fact when you look at
relationship in fact when you look a
you know this how beautiful this
relationship was
tells the the son of Imam Allah that
tells the the son of Imam Allah tha
there are six people in this world that
there are six people in this world tha
I make Dua for every single day there
are six people in this world that I may
block for every single day
one of them is your father you find
another beautiful incident between Imam
is
staying over at Imam Muhammad's house
they're having a sleepover right in this
image who has sleepovers anymore but
image who has sleepovers anymore bu
this sleepover is very unique why were
they sleeping over because they would
wake up in the morning and they would
exchange knowledge so now that's the
first beautiful thing about it the
second beautiful thing about it is
to sleep he tells his daughter that get
to sleep he tells his daughter that ge
some water prepared in advance
so that when Imam
um wakes up for Kiam away we have warm
water to provide him that's not freezing
cold at that time
so morning time comes
and Imam Muhammad asks you know did you
give imak Shafi the water that he needed
and she says you know my dear father
Imam Allah never asked for the water to
begin with
is perplexed now why is he perplexed
because he's thinking what type of Imam
what type of Sheikh is this that he
doesn't wake up okay when they're
intention like how are you going to be
religious 30 and you're not playing
taijin I approaches
responds to him by saying that I never
lost my will do in the first place how
so he says that there were 70 different
so he says that there were 70 differen
legal matters that I kept on revisiting
in my head and I couldn't fall asleep
now when I look at the story I'm amazed
that when you look at our sleep patterns
what usually prevents us from falling
asleep yeah you're checking your phone
you're on Facebook online that's so
interesting you know and that's what you
end up thinking about or you know you
had a bad day at work you keep thinking
about your bad day at work
he's like oh I was just revisiting 70
physical opinions and you know I wanted
to see what the correct opinion was and
what conclusions I came to and he does
that the whole night like sacrifice
sleep for that so this like just within
that story there's so many lessons
subhanallah so these are the types of
people that we were dealing with and
that was like the closest relationship
that all of them had
on the last Point related to this
section on the relationship
and important book for someone that
and important book for someone tha
needs to that wants to study is
[Applause]
so the students
he has a narration of the mouth of Alex
textbook which is his version of it why
is this unique because you have someone
that is originally hanafi in his
foundation studying Hadith from a
manatee scholar and is giving commentary
from the hanafi side of it and this book
is actually published in English that's
why I'm actually recommending it for you
when you read this book it actually
expands your horizons on how you can
have two completely different approaches
to the exact same Hadith so you want to
see how the hanafi school the Maliki
School approaches Hadith that is one of
the best ways to understand it so that
the best ways to understand it so tha
is a very good
um book to read a very good book to read
now
um we already talked about peaceful
coexistence they loved one another
respected one another
and
we mentioned about that already
a central balance okay staying balanced
Islam is a religion of what we call
centricism or as Allah
refers it for us that he created us and
ummah that is balance that's what Allah
calls it in English it's called
centricism where we always take the
balanced and middle approach now the
scholars represented that throughout
scholars represented that throughou
their lives in every single aspect and I
want to talk about that so from a
religious leadership aspect even though
they were at odds with their political
leadership they never supported the
opposition understand that point that
opposition understand that point tha
from a power standpoint that even though
they were persecuted by the political
leaders of their times they didn't
leaders of their times they didn'
support the opposition but rather they
used to create their own intellectual
movements that would give political
advice
so people would naturally assume that
so people would naturally assume tha
because these people have been
persecuted by their political Authority
they must naturally support the
opposition but that wasn't the case they
always created their own opinions to
which they would guide the people
through so let me give you an example
as Muslims where do we stand on issues
pertain to the environment right this is
a discussion that no one talks about
a discussion that no one talks abou
where do Muslims stand on the issue of
like animal rights no one's talking
about it where do Muslims stand on like
economic matters right these are all
things that are discussed in politics
but in terms of authority no one's there
to respond to them these imams created
their own political identity within the
sphere of religious thought and that is
how they spoke about those issues from a
religious Paradigm from a religious
background so they weren't about
background so they weren't abou
supporting or going against the
leadership but it was about creating
political identity through religion and
having an opinion on these matters
through religion number two is that from
the time of the sahaba of the Allah you
already saw sectarianism taking place
right from the time of Abdullah the
first Hadith you see that the kadaria
already existed people that were talking
about Qatar that we have free is no such
thing as predestination during the time
we talked about how Allah did not have
attributes right that the Quran was
created and it was not the speech of
Allah
during the time of uh Imam well later on
but one of the main issues time was the
whole issue of Iman that can actions
exist our actions are part of Iman or
not right this is like a big discussion
during his time so these are all issues
that are happening that the imams are
taking very balanced opinions on now how
does one develop balance in these
matters this is the importance the
important you know Crux over here don't
important you know Crux over here don'
speak until you've researched so anytime
something arose if these imams didn't
something arose if these imams didn'
know they would speak to other Scholars
what are your thoughts on this matter
what do you understand about these
matters help me understand so that I can
formulate an opinion so balance is a
result of meticulous research and that's
what needs to be brought back so you
yourself as an individual you know ask
any job bro is this Haram like one of
the things that annoys me the most
the things that annoys me the mos
people post random Facebook statuses is
X Y and Z Halal like I'll give you a
real example I'm part of a Facebook
group called Halal in Vancouver
uh things in Vancouver and someone
posted this morning just today is
McDonald's halal
right so either you're coming from the
Paradigm of it is halal and you want
Paradigm of it is halal and you wan
them to validate your opinion and you
know cheer them on or you're coming from
the Paradigm that you want to see you
know who eats it so that you can put
know who eats it so that you can pu
them down like it's not genuine research
like if you have a a physical illness
you don't go to your mechanic and say
hey can you diagnose what's wrong with
me when you have a problem with your car
you're not going to go to your dentist
you're not going to go to your dentis
taking you tell me what's wrong with my
car so why is it that when it comes to
religious matters we have no problem
asking anyone right so always
meticulously research those matters go
back to the people of knowledge and then
the third uh issue of balance is in
terms of their own Spiritual Development
terms of their own Spiritual Developmen
in terms of their own Spiritual
Developmen
so what does that look like
gee I'll just jump ahead to that right
gee I'll just jump ahead to that righ
now
it's quite a bit still to get through
mashallah but don't worry we'll finish
soon inshallah
spiritual leadership
so you know on Spiritual Development you
know they understood that in order to be
scholar of Islam it wasn't just about
scholar of Islam it wasn't just abou
preaching and teaching it was about
preaching and teaching it was abou
building up your own personal
relationship with Allah and I want to
share you know we already saw the story
he used to say a legal scholar should
put dust on his head in humility and
give thanks to Allah mean that he should
be constantly in a state of sajdah so
that dust is gathering on his forehead
thanking Allah for these blessings Imam
Muhammad used to read the Quran from
beginning to end every seven days
following the examples set by The
Prophet's companions he spent many of
his days fasting especially during the
time when he was in prison and he was
known for self-restraint asceticism
refused love gifts and his classes were
lessons about the Hereafter as Abu Dhabi
used to say meaning that he's always
tying his classes in to the importance
of the Hereafter
used to say about Imam Malik Imam Malik
heart was filled with art towards Allah
the likes of whom I've never seen before
meaning that no one has had as much awe
of Allah as Imam Malik did
Allah used to say my father used to fast
Allah used to say my father used to fas
consecutive days for long stretches of
time then he would go sometime without
time then he would go sometime withou
offering constant fast but he would
always fast the recommended Monday and
Thursday fast and the three days in the
middle of the month so their personal
ibada was very sacred to them again the
importance of acting upon the knowledge
that they had so this is another thing
that made them unique is that they
understood that they would the
importance of implementing their
knowledge now how far would they go with
this a beautiful story
is that one day he went to get hijama
done hijama is cupping when he wants to
get cupping done he paid the man a
Dirham to do this this Dirham was a huge
amount to this man it's like I've never
been paid this amount before
and he asked him you know why did you
play this man such a large amount like
he didn't do anything spectacular
he says that there is not a single
Hadith that I know except that I've made
Amal upon it except that I made action
upon it then he goes on to mention the
is not and then he mentions the Hadith
that the prophet salallahu alaihi
wasallam had hijama done and he
compensated the man with a Dirham he
compensated the man with a Dirham so the
importance of acting upon that knowledge
the importance of acting upon that
the importance of acting upon tha
knowledge
thank you
the imams being valuable
this is like a huge discussion that you
know did the imams make mistakes it's
very important to understand that yes
they did make mistakes they were human
beings
says something very beautiful he says in
a weird man who makes wholesome and
positive contributions to Islamic
knowledge enjoys a high rank in Islam as
well as with Muslims he might have had a
few slips in thought and made a few
mistakes for those he is excused or
indeed rewarded for his sincere effort
indeed rewarded for his sincere effor
to find the truth it is not permissible
for anyone to follow him in those errors
nor is it permissible to use those
errors as a means to harm his reputation
and good standing in the hearts of the
Muslims now this is such an important
Muslims now this is such an importan
quote over here that people that have
made huge sacrifices and contributions
to Islam it is important to understand
that they're human beings at the end of
the day and just because they make a few
mistakes it doesn't mean that their
reputation drops or that you start
reputation drops or that you star
spreading you know bad about them that
spreading you know bad about them tha
these people haven't done anything good
now I want to tie this into something
very very practical
over the winter break there's a massive
convention that takes place called The
Revival of the Islamic Spirit it is the
biggest convention in Canada and it's
possible to become the biggest
possible to become the bigges
convention in North America in this
conference there is a particular scholar
that had arrived off of a very very long
flight from the Middle East and then
it's he puts he gets put in front of
someone that is like the most cleverest
someone that is like the most cleveres
of like news journalists out there like
you hear this guy speak and you can tell
that this man's head goes at like a
thousand kilometers an hour he's in an
interview in front of this man and he's
getting asked about very sensitive
matters he's fatigued and he's
commenting on these matters the ideal
situation is if you're tired don't put
situation is if you're tired don't pu
yourself in that situation but now it's
happened
so what ends up happening is he ends up
making some slips of the tongue he says
some things that are culturally and
politically insensitive
you look at what happens at Twitter and
Facebook after that and it's as if 35
years of contribution in Islamic
leadership and scholarship goes down the
drain that this man is a disbeliever he
is a hypocrite he should be assassinated
he's filth he's x y and z
arrested I don't know about that but
arrested I don't know about that bu
um you know it was just really really
disturbing and I was like where is the
balance in the ummah why is it not
balance in the ummah why is it no
possible for a scholar to make a mistake
yet still be respected why is there so
much pressure to be perfect and that is
the reality of it that Islamic
leadership is like any other form of
leadership it is you know uh it's within
the realm of humanity that as human
beings we all make mistakes so a person
makes a couple of mistakes you shouldn't
makes a couple of mistakes you shouldn'
spread to that evil to reduce the
reputation or to speak bad about them
and just because they make those
mistakes it doesn't mean that they're no
longer a scholar and they haven't made
contribution to Islam you know I'll
share another example with you today
that on Facebook there's a Facebook that
that on Facebook there's a Facebook tha
is like Muslims of Calgary or something
like that and in it they quoted one of
the the a famous Muslim scholar that's
talking about how it's nice to see a
peaceful transition in politics take
place that when Trump got into Power
Obama left and was very peaceful you
know there was no like shootings no one
was an attempted assassination nothing
bad happened and this person just goes
on the rent
on the ren
about how you know Islamic scholarship
you know that this person isn't a
scholar and ex-wind said I didn't read
it in detail but again just
it in detail but again jus
disheartening stuff that just because
you disagree with someone you take away
their all those scholarly contributions
it shouldn't be like that Scholars make
mistakes understand they're human beings
Your Role is one of two if you're in the
ability to advise them advise them if
you're unable to advise them make blood
forgiveness in their guidance because
go straight guaranteed you guys are
going Australia as well if these cars
are operating during their Duty you will
be guided as well
seeing the religious scholarship for in
the uma's best interests it is not in
the Oma's best interest and this is what
the Oma's best interest and this is wha
we understand from the quote of Allah
knowledge and ethical conduct I'll share
one story here on how they've dealt with
difference of opinion so one of the
people that you never wanted to debate
with was Imam why he was more eloquent
with was Imam why he was more eloquen
he was more knowledgeable his analogical
deduction was on point meaning his
ability to give examples and to reason
was amazing so any time that someone
debating with Imam Allah they would end
up getting destroyed and people always
wanted to test you know can I go up
against Imam Shafi in a debate so
there's this one individual
ascenti he said I have never met anyone
as sensible as a chef I once debated him
and on an issue after which we went our
separate ways later on he came up to me
and took me by the hand and he says
isn't it best for us to remain Brothers
even though there's a matter that we
differ upon and this is like you know
true Brotherhood right here that we will
debate right it's not about me being
right and you belong with you being
right and me being wrong and someone
achieving the truth and if at the end of
the debate we still differ does that
the debate we still differ does tha
mean we have to leave with animosity
obviously not Imam comes he grabs him by
the hand and he reminds him that our
Brotherhood our Sisterhood is more
important than our difference of opinion
than this matter right the priorities in
our faith so this shows their ethical
conduct even in defense of opinion
their ability to admit when they were
wrong
that any time they gave a legal verdict
that any time they gave a legal verdic
they had no shyness in saying that I've
changed my opinion on this matter in
fact when you study this is the
most kind of one of the most confusing
things you'll see Imam is
the post Iraq and Egypt that you read
two contradictory opinions from Imam
Shafi you're like how do you reconcile
this is
a booked
um called al-insoft and this whole book
is trying to just to derive the correct
is trying to just to derive the correc
opinion from the multiple opinions that
opinion from the multiple opinions tha
Imam Muhammad had on this matter so what
Imam Muhammad had on this matter so wha
we see is that if these Scholars
progressed they learned more and he
didn't feel shy saying hey I've changed
my you know opinion on this matter it
my you know opinion on this matter i
wasn't about arrogance it wasn't about
wasn't about arrogance it wasn't abou
Pride where you know I'm going to die
with this opinion till the day I die and
this show is intellectual maturity
academic maturity that these Scholars
showed that you know I'll share one
example with you in the Maliki School of
Law over 70 000 of Malik's legal
opinions were transmitted by his
students who went to Iraq however due to
Malik's habit of revising his opinions
this led to a serious amount of
differences between what would later
develop into the Iraqi and the Western
branches of Malaki thought 70 000
opinions can you imagine that so that
opinions can you imagine that so tha
takes a huge amount of humility as well
as sincerity as well as sincerity now
the last thing I want to conclude with
is something on the more light-hearted
note which is their personalities what
note which is their personalities wha
were their personalities like
observed found it stressful to meet with
people since it was not from his Habit
people since it was not from his Habi
to socialize people mistook that for
arrogance but really it was just a part
arrogance but really it was just a par
of his temperament
of his temperamen
he describes his father as someone who
habitually spent long periods of time
alone Imam Muhammad used to say I find
that Solitude brings peace to my heart
that Solitude brings peace to my hear
and he would sometimes say I desire the
unattainable I desire a place where I
can be left alone so you'll notice that
can be left alone so you'll notice tha
even though they had all of this Fame
and all this repute the things that they
desired the most for their Solitude and
they loved being alone they loved being
alone with the fussy loved being alone
with their books they loved being alone
with the Quran and with the narrations
of the Prophet sallallahu alaihi
wasallam so you'll notice that their
temperament was one of like Solitude
they weren't public figures so the only
time you would see them in public at the
Masjid and at classes other than that
Masjid and at classes other than tha
they kept it themselves they didn't
they kept it themselves they didn'
interact with people much they didn't
interact with people much they didn'
interact with people much now there's
the interesting one in terms of their
understanding of asceticism and wealth
so we'll talk about Imam Malik because
he's the one that really sticks out on
this
says I visited Malik once and saw him
wearing a fine robe that must have cost
wearing a fine robe that must have cos
500 its colors came to eye level and it
500 its colors came to eye level and i
had the appearance of what a king might
had the appearance of what a king migh
wear
he says when Malik died his household
effects like carpets cushions and
feather pillows were sold for 500 gold
coins an inventory was taken of his
estate upon his death and from it were
found
500 pairs of sandals 100 turbines
2629 gold coins and a thousand pieces of
silver
is very unique
he believed that religious scholarship
was meant to dress the best and look the
best because this is part of the honor
of religion the part of the honor our
insertity of knowledge you had to dress
the best whereas you look at
the best whereas you look a
him Allah exact opposite
had one pair of leather socks for 17
years
and for 17 years they would rep he would
take it to the same person and get it
take it to the same person and get i
patched up and one of the times this man
he looks at this he's like how do you
want me to patch this up where do you
want to put more patches on this it's
like the exact opposite and again both
of these approaches were understood and
acceptable now I think we live in a day
and age where you know if an Imam is
seen wearing like you know a three-piece
suit that's really expensive or he
drives like a really nice car or he has
like a really nice watch natural
assumption
oh he must be taking money from the
Masjid he must be stealing donations or
something whereas
500 pair of shoes normal Waters will
have that at least I'm assuming that in
my remind 500 Praises sandals he had 100
turbines right
turbines righ
what's a turbine it's like what you wrap
around you're like almost like a head
covering like the scars to wear turbines
that's what he used to have and it was
acceptable no one criticized him for it
acceptable no one criticized him for i
so there was nothing wrong with Scholars
being rich and showing off the blessings
that they had right
that they had righ
which is going to lead to my last point
which is going to lead to my last poin
that when we're talking about Center of
balance one thing I forgot to mention is
that they never took any official
positions within their government so all
of them were offered positions by their
governments saying become an official
government scholar but they all refused
to do that why because they knew it
to do that why because they knew i
would take away from their integrity
that they would be put in a compromising
situation because they're receiving
stipends and money from their
governments they will be forced to issue
that were supporting and encouraging of
those governments and they never want to
put themselves in that situation number
two is people will look at you right
two is people will look at you righ
when you earn your salary from someone
else people will look at you as an
appointed you know servant of that
appointed you know servant of tha
Institute or that organization or that
Institute or that organization or tha
place so people will not view you as
having that integrity and you'll always
have that fear hey from here I shouldn't
have that fear hey from here I shouldn'
say anything bad about them so they
always stay separate from that and all
of them were involved with some form of
business and that is why I think it's
imperative that particularly for a
religious scholarship there needs to be
two elements number one is financial
literacy that this is something most
literacy that this is something mos
religious Authority doesn't have how to
budget how to save money how to invest
budget how to save money how to inves
and the exact opposite which is like one
of my lifelong dreams inshallah is to
establish a rock for Muslim leaders that
establish a rock for Muslim leaders tha
and Imam how long do you want him to be
your Imam of a Masjid right nowadays the
allergy mom doesn't even stay five years
with an organization he gets abused he
moves on to Northern organization is
patient for like another five years till
he goes out to another organization and
that's what happens the message say you
find an organization that you really
love and you want to stick around with
you to be your Imam for let's just say
15 20 years
60 years old
when he turned 60 70 years old how much
longer do you want him to keep teaching
and keep coming to the Masjid what about
and keep coming to the Masjid what abou
his retirement plan right so this idea
of a walk would be to support religious
scholarship not only to take care of
their salary so that they can be
independent in their research and not
independent in their research and no
depend upon others but also so that when
they retire they don't have that stress
of hey I'm retiring now I need to keep
you know destroying myself in the
service of the community so that's
something to think about inshallah and
other positions uh were fine that you
can take the approach of asceticism take
the approach of being wealthy it's
dealing with what Allah gives you
now the last section he brings about is
the principles but that like I said
we'll be discussing on uh Thursday
I'm just thinking uh what's the last
I'm just thinking uh what's the las
thing I want to conclude on
the last thing I'll conclude on this
with this quote inshallah and where uh
this is speaking he says when people
Embark upon the study of religious
knowledge they need to have the love of
Allah in their hearts their Spirits
should be humble their eyes should be
full of tears and their tongues should
be busy with the utterance of Allah's
Praises what they learn by seeing and
engaging in righteous Deeds is something
that they can never get from books and
that's like the the note I want to leave
one that Our intention in coming to this
Holocaust and in learning what is the
intention behind it it has to be these
things to increase the love of Allah in
our hearts to make our Spirits humble to
increase our eyes and tears out of the
fear of Allah out of the love of Allah
and that our tongues constantly be busy
with the remembrance of Allah now he
concludes with a beautiful point that
concludes with a beautiful point tha
this sort of terribly are the sort of
development is something that you will
never get from the books this always has
to be through human interaction this
always has to be from learning from a
teacher to a student and then you're
going on that same Journey yourself that
going on that same Journey yourself tha
whether it is you becoming a parent and
teaching it to your children or you're
teaching at a Saturday and Sunday school
you know they're sharing what Allah has
given you so I think that's like the
ideal note to conclude on for tonight
ideal note to conclude on for tonigh
[Music]